------------------------------------

Title: Soul emote client
Author: Parthenon @ LPUniversity
Date: 28-JUN-2006
Contributors: Parthenon, Tacitus
Updated: 29-JUNE-06 by Tacitus

-----------------------------------

i. What is the emote client?
ii. How-to: use the edemote command to interface with the soul daemon.


i. What is the emote client?

   The emote client is an object that gets clone to you upon using the edemote
   command. This object allows you to interface with the soul daemon. If you wish
   to create your own client you may see the document 'soul_d' to get a better
   understanding of how it works.


ii. How-to: user the edemote command to interface with the soul daemon.

    To interface with the soul daemon using the edemote commmand, you must first
    be a member of the 'soul' group. Not just anybody is allowed to toy with this.
    There are no arguments to use with this command, it is just simply 'edemote'.

    Upon running the edemote command, an invisible object called the emote client
    gets cloned and moved to your inventory. You really dont have to worry about
    the object itself because the startup procedure is automated. When it is moved
    to you, the function 'main_menu()' is called in the client. This will bring
    up a shell-type interface and menu system. Here you can make your choice of
    how you wish to interact with the daemon:

    1. Add emote

    If you wish to add a new emote to the MUD, you may use the first option. Upon
    choosing this option you are asked to enter the name of the emote you want to
    create. Of course if you try to create one that already exists you are told
    to choose another. Also the emote name must be only one word. after that, you are
    asked if you want to make it a targeted or untargeted emote, or both. At any time
    during the creation of the emote, you may exit out to the main menu to cancel
    creating it. Once you are done, you will get a message saying the emote was
    added and you will be taken back to the main menu.

    Notes on the creation of emote messages. This is also explained during the
    creation process but for your viewing pleasure, when you create the messages
    for the emotes, there are certain key words you can use that will later be
    replaced with certain things depending upon the situation. They are:

    $I = Emoter (changes between 'you' and the emoter's name)
    $PI = Possessive emoter
    $SI = Subjective emoter
    $OI = Objective emoter
    $T = Target (changes between 'you' and the target's name)
    $PT = Possessive target
    $ST = Subjective target
    $OT = Objective emoter
    $M = Modifier
    $V = Verb (this will be pluralized depending upon who sees it)

    NOTE: Do not put a period on the end. The daemon will do this for you.

    2. Remove existing emote

    This option will allow you to remove an emote that already exists in the MUD.
    You will be asked which emote you wish to delete. If you wish to delete the
    untargeted version of an emote, then you will enter the emote. If you wish
    to delete the targeted version of an emote, then you must enter the emote name
    AND append '/t' to it... such as 'smile/t'. If you enter the normal emote name
    and both a targeted and untargeted version exist, then it will ask which you
    wish to delete, and you may chose both if thats what you want. One more thing,
    if there exists only one version of the emote, either targeted or untargeted,
    and you enter the normal name of the emote... it will delete the one that
    exists.

    3. See message syntax for specific emotes

    This option will allow you to review the form of the output that an emote will
    take. Againg you will be asked for the name of the emote. If you wish to see
    the targeted form of the emote, be sure to append a '/t' to the end of it.
    As long as the mote exists that you are asking for, a list will be printed out
    that will tell you the message printed to the emoter, the room, the target (if
    any), and the default modifier applied to the emote.

    4. See all available emotes

    This option will print out a list of all emotes that are avaiable to use, both
    targeted and untargeted.

    5. Remove all emotes (CAREFUL)

    This option will delete all emotes from the MUD. You must be careful when using
    this option for it is not reversible. It does however ask you to confirm your
    choice so that you can't accidentally do it.

