			Frequently Asked Questions

INTRODUCTION

1. What is the LPUniversity Foundation?

	The LPUniversity Foundation is a community driven project
	that aspires to revive the LPCommunity by providing numerous
	services; a mutual location for research, education, and
	development; standardization; and the development of a powerful,
	new, innovative, mudlib.

	More information about LPUniversity Foundation can be found at:
		http://lpuni.org

2. What is the LPUniversity Mudlib?

	The LPUniversity Mudlib is a new mudlib that started to be developed
	on April 2nd, 2005 by Cody A.W. Somerville (aka Tacitus). Abstractly,
	the goals for the mudlib are to be innovative, easy to use, and powerful
	enough to rival diku-type muds.

3. What is a mudlib?

	A mudlib is a library of interpreted code used to create a MUD. It is
    interpreted code usually written in the LPC language. The code is
 	interpreted on the fly by a driver.

	The driver acts as a virtual machine while the mudlib acts as an operating
 	system by defining how the game is played and controlling the game.

4. What is LPC?

	The LPC programming language is an object-oriented programming
	language derived from C and developed by Lars Pensjö to facilitate
	MUD building on LPMuds.

	LPC syntax is very similar to that of the C programming language
	and familiar to Java.

5. What is an lpmud?

	LPMud (sometimes shortened to simply "LP") is a MUD variant developed in
 	1989 by Lars Pensjö that separates the mud game functionality between a
 	virtual machine (known as the driver) and world-building components in the
 	LPC programming language (known as the mudlib).

GETTING STARTED

6. After I configure the mud, how do I become an admin?

	If you are the first person to login after setting up the muf
	for the first time, you should have automatically became admin.
	If this did not occur for some reason, simply recreate a file called
	"new_install" in /adm/etc/ and the next person to create a character
	will become admin. If you need to delete your character to recreate,
	the data is stored in /data/users/

	If you're character name was tacitus, delete the directory
	/data/users/t/tacitus/

7. How I make other people staff on the mud?

	You can use the 'makdev' command to make other users developers.
	A developer is the same as a wizard, creator, or immortal on other
	muds.

8. How do I revoke developer access from users on my mud?

	You can use the 'revdev' command to revoke developer access
	from other people.

9. How do I make other people admins?

	After making them a developer with the developer command, you
	need to add them to the "admin" group which you can do with the
	'access' command. For example, to make a user who is named 'tacitus'
	an admin when he is a user I'd type:

	makdev tacitus
	access
	2
	3
	tacitus
	admin
	5
	4

	It should be pretty self-explainatory once you get into the access command.
	
	If for some reason the access cmmand is not working, you can modify
	/adm/etc/groups manually.

10.	How do I revoke admin access from someone?

	To remove tacitus' admin access, you would type:

	revdev tacitus
	access
	2
	3
	tacitus
	admin
	5
	4

COMMUNICATION

11. What is a channel module/network?

	Different channels are managed by different objects that
	allow for plug and play of different networks that act
	differently or have special features.

	See documents in /doc/mudlib/ for more information.

12. Why can't some people talk on the announce channel?

	Only admins (or system objects) may talk on the announce channel
	This is controlled in announceNet channel network module.

13. What is intermud?

	In brief, Intermud allows you to chat with people on other muds.
	Type 'channels list I3' to see all intermud channels available
	on your mud.

	You can use the 'lpuni' channel to get support.

14. An intermud channel that I _know_ exists isn't available on this mud, why?

	Only channels listed in /adm/etc/i3_channels will be available on
	your mud. Simply add the channel you wish to access and reload the
	intermud channel mdoule. You can also remove a channel from that
	list to disable it.

	A configuration tool to make this easier is in the works.

15. How do I send a message to all users on the mud?

	Admins may can use the 'wall' command to send a message to all
	users. They will see this message regardless if they are tuned
	into channels or not.

DEVELOPING

16. How do I learn LPC?

	You can learn lpc by reading the descartes LPC manual available
	in /doc/driver/lpc/basic/ and /doc/driver/lpc/intermediate/

	The next step is to practice, practice, practice and to
	work on things to try new concepts and ideas.

	If you ever need help, you can always ask for it on the intermud
	channels or by visiting the forums at http://lpuni.org
	
	UPDATE: There is a document called "Learn LPC in 14 days" that is
	currently being written at http://lpuni.org/education

17. How do I edit files?

	You can use the 'ed' command to edit files from within the mud.
	However, it isn't the easiest thing to use but there is a good
	manual available at /doc/wiz/editor
	
	An ftp server is currently in development.

18. Woah! I can edit files from within the mud?

	Yup, you can access the file system from within the mud.
	You might want to look at the help files for the following
	commands: ls, cd, mkdir, rmdir, ed, rm, mv, cp

19. How do I test the code that I've written?

	Type 'update <filename>.c', replacing <filename> with the
	name of file you wish to update. If there are any errors,
	they'll be printed out after you type this command.

	See the helpfiles for the following commands:
		update, dest, clone, clean

20. So I can develop the mud while it is running?

	That is correct. Pretty cool isn't it?

MISC. FAQS

21. How do I rid/delete someone's account?

	You can delete a user's account by typing 'nuke <user>' while
	replacing <user> with the user's username. When you nuke a user
	it will also remove them from all groups and disconnect them
	from the mud.
	

22. How do I ban a username or ban someone by IP?

	You would use the lockdown command. It is very powerful
	and menu-driven - so it should be pretty easy to use.

23. There isn't much to the mudlib/Where are all the features?

	The mudlib is still very very new. If you're looking for a
	well feature, more mature mudlib then I recommend visiting
	http://dead-souls.net to get the Dead Souls 2 mudlib.

	However, if you're looking for a solid base and a more
	"bare bone" mud to develop from then LPUniversity Mudlib
	is for you! :)

24. How do I request a feature, report a bug, get support, or submit code?

	You can request a feature, report a bug, request support, and submit
	patches at http://sourceforge.net/projects/lpuni

	It is greatly apprecaited when people make use of those facilities.

	You can also get support on our forums at http://lpuni.org

25. Where does development occur?

	You can login to the LPUniversity devmud at lpuni.org 6000 to
	see the latest features, to talk with a core developer, or to
	just to visit! :)

26. My question isn't answered here, what should I do?

	If you can't find your answer in the very sparce documentation
	that is provided with this mudlib, then feel free to see question
	number 24. If you feel your question should be in this FAQ, feel
	free to recommend that it be added when you ask your question.
	
	You can also ask for help on the lpuni channel, on the lpuni.org
	forums, or by e-mailing support@lpuni.org
