You have recieved a copy of this document because you are
new to developing on an LPMud and/or on the LPUniMudlib. This document
will be brief but it should help point you into the right direction!

 Getting Started:

 1. First off, lets start by reading the mudlib FAQ - this is just
    a 25 question frequently asked questions compiled by myself.
    The FAQ is geared towards individuals who have downloaded the
    mudlib and wish to use it to build their own mud but you'll find
    _most_ questions are applicable to you. 

    Currently you are in the file pager - an object (or "program") is
    display a text file to you page by page (or screen by screen). To
    exit prematurely (before the file has been completed paged to you),
    type 'q' and hit enter.

    If you've followed the above instructions, you should see something like
    the following:

    -=-= [8%] =-=-  q
    > 

    You are now ready to page another file using the 'more' command 
    (type 'help more' for more information). To page the FAQ, type:

        more /doc/FAQ

 2. After you are done reading the FAQ, you should know: what an lpmud is;
    what lpc is; What a mudlib is; What LPUniversity Foundation is; What the
    LPUniMudlib is; What intermud is; How to request a feature, file a bug
    report, request support, or submit a patch; A few of the command; and
    some adminy stuff that you don't really need to know yet.

    Before you get much further, you'll need to know how to use certain
    command that allow you to navigate and manipulate (aka change) the
    file system (ie. The directories and files). The following is a list
    of file system commands and a summary of what they do. To get more
    information on any of the commands, type 'help <command name>' - 
    replacing <command name> with the name of the command you need help or
    want more information on. 

    Note: If you have ever used linux, you're already set because most
        of the commands have the same name and same general function.

    ls    : List the files in your current directory
    cd    : Change directory
    rm    : Delete a file
    rmdir : Delete a directory
    mkdir : Create a directory
    mv    : Move a file
    cp    : Copy a file
    ed    : Edit a file
    more  : Page a file
    cat   : Display a file all at once
    tail  : Display the end of the file
    pwd   : Displays information about your current directory 
                and current working file

    Each of these commands accept arguments (you can see the exact syntax
    of each command by referring to their help). For example, if you
    typed "mkdir moo" then it would create the directory moo in the
    directory you are currently in. 

    ed is a special command - it launchs a built in mud editor that
    lets you edit files. It isn't trivial to use so you'll want to
    type 'help editor' to get more info on how to use ed.

    It is recommended that you try out the above commands get used to
    them before moving on.

 3. Now that you know about the mud and how to move around and manipulate
    the filesystem, I figure it is time to learn how to use some of your
    special developer (aka wizard) powers.

    The following is a list of commands that you may be interested
    in playing around with:

    snowball  : Launches a snowball at a random person
    lazygun   : A command that does some very random things 
                    - use at your own risk!
    goto      : Transport yourself to anyone or anywhere!
    home      : Transport to your very own workroom/home!
    mail      : Mail other developers!
    echo      : Echo your argument to the room
    eval      : Evaluate lpc code
    people    : A very informative 'who' type command
    force     : Force NPCs to do your bidding!
    where     : Tell you where people are
    setplan   : Easily set your "plan"

    Plus many more that you'll get a chance to learn about later :)

    Some other commands that you might be interested in (that
    users/players also have): news, passwd, emotes, relogin,
    channel, finger, set_env

 4. So, you want to maybe start with the coding already?
    This is very things get tricky so I'll just give you
    some more recommended reading and we can discuss what you've
    read when we get a chance.

    Type:

    cd /doc/driver/lpc/basic/
    ls
    
    You'll see a bunch of files in this directory, ie. chapter1, chapter2, etc.
    Simply start reading this introduction to LPC by typing:

    more Introduction

    Then after you're done reading that, type:

    more chapter1

    And then:

    more chapter2
    
    And so on until you finish the "basics". Now... this isn't the best book
    in the world. Infact, most people get confused and have to reread it a
    few times. Some people also get so fustrated with it that they quit
    trying to learn LPC altogether! I recommend that you take things
    in small paces - make sure you are understanding what you are reading
    before moving on. If you get stuck, ask for help and you'll be able to
    find someone who can easily answer it in a way you'll understand.

 5. Well, best of luck! I'll see about expanding this document once
    I've had some sleep! :)
